



Professor Jar
By Samsara Vagabond

Professor Delaney Jar was not a primal man. So, if you consider it philosophically, it is unsurprising that he chose to devote his life to the study of the primal mind. Three dozen years and countless hours of his own and of the graduate students under him had been spent cataloguing the very most primitive parts of the brains of animals and man--that which all vertebrates from fish and lizards to dogs and dolphins have in common.

The portions pertaining to food had been mapped out relatively rapidly. After that came the parts devoted to fear. Then had come the long period spent lovingly categorizing all the regions having to do with mating, sex, and reproduction. And now the professor, nearing the end of his career, had gained a thorough knowledge of everything held in common by animals high and low. Except for one thing.

There was a small region of nerves found in the brains of vertebrates that Professor Jar and all his students had been unable to find a purpose for. They knew that it had some use, and indeed was quite an active bit of nerve tissue, but they had never been able to decipher what that use was. And as Professor Jar stood in his office and looked out the window at the quad below, this incompleteness in his life's work made him uneasy.

There was a knock at the door, and in came one of Professor Jar's graduate students, holding a sheaf of papers and looking nervous.

"Sir?" he said. "The data is in. We...we have an answer."

The professor smiled broadly and clenched his fists in anticipation. "Yes? What is it?"

The student took a deep breath. "To-do lists, sir."

The professor was dumbfounded. "What?"

"The final region. It's devoted to making to-do lists."

"Let me see that," said the professor, and he pulled the papers from the student's hands.

There was no doubt. The data left only one conclusion. To-do lists.

"Thank you," said the professor, still reeling from the revelation. "Thank you. You may go."

The student left, and Professor Jar stood surrounded by his books and oaken walls, and slowly regained his composure. This was a discovery of historical proportions. He smiled. He had many things to attend to--the announcement, publishing, perhaps even a talk show or two.

Professor Jar sat in his big comfortable chair facing the window and carefully outlined the things he had to do. It felt good.

